Added support for policy identifier (#130)
ietf-wg-httpapi/ratelimit-headers: draft-ietf-httpapi-ratelimit-headers.md

    name: Alejandro Martinez Ruiz
    org: Red Hat
    email: alex@flawedcode.org
-   
    ins: D. Miller
    name: Darrel Miller
    org: Microsoft

>     email: darrel@tavis.ca

Reviewer: +1 @darrelmiller :)

## RateLimit {#ratelimit-field}

A server uses the "RateLimit" response header field to communicate the client quota consumption state.

The field is expressed as a Structured Fields {{STRUCTURED-FIELDS}} sf-Item that identifies the policy and its associated consumption state as parameters.

An origin server MUST not return a response that contains multiple rate limit fields with the same policy value.

The field is a Dictionary. The allowed keys are defined in the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) RateLimit Keywords and Parameters Registry", as described in {{iana-ratelimit-parameters}}.

The following parameters are defined in this specification:

  r:
  :  This parameter value conveys the remaining quota units for the identified policy ({{ratelimit-remaining-parameter}}).

  t:

>   : This OPTIONAL parameter value conveys the time window reset time for the identified policy ({{ratelimit-reset-parameter}}).

Reviewer 2: In some places the document says "t" is a parameter (e.g. here it says "optional parameter") and in other places it says it's a keyword (e.g. below in the name of the "Reset Keyword" section). Since "r" is called a parameter, I think it makes sense to call "t" a parameter consistently as well :v:

Author: Yes. As we switched from sf-dictionary to sf-item with parameters we needed to move from the term "keyword" to "parameter". I will check to make sure we have removed all uses of keyword.

It is a non-negative Integer compatible with the delay-seconds rule, because:

- it does not rely on clock synchronization and is resilient to clock adjustment
  and clock skew between client and server (see {{Section 5.6.7 of HTTP}});
- it mitigates the risk related to thundering herd when too many clients are serviced with the same timestamp.

For example:

~~~
   t=50
~~~

The client MUST NOT assume that all its service limit will be reset at the moment indicated by the reset keyword. The server MAY arbitrarily alter the reset keyword value between subsequent requests; for example, in case of resource saturation or to implement sliding window policies.

## RateLimit-Policy {#ratelimit-policy-field}

The "RateLimit-Policy" response header field contains properties of the quota policy of the target resource that are expected to remain consistent over a the lifetime of a connection. It is this characteristic that differentiates itself from the [RateLimit](#ratelimit-field) that contains values that may change on every request.  Its value is informative.

The field is a non-empty List of Items. Each item is a [quota policy](#quota-policy).

> Two quota policies MUST NOT be associated with the same quota units value unless they are differentiated with a unique p parameter value.

Author: It is legacy. I have removed it.

The "RateLimit-Policy" response header field contains properties of the quota policy of the target resource that are expected to remain consistent over a the lifetime of a connection. It is this characteristic that differentiates itself from the [RateLimit](#ratelimit-field) that contains values that may change on every request.  Its value is informative.

The field is a non-empty List of Items. Each item is a [quota policy](#quota-policy).
Two quota policies MUST NOT be associated with the same quota units value unless they are differentiated with a unique p parameter value.

This field can convey the time window associated with the expiring-limit, as shown in this example:

~~~ example
   RateLimit-Policy: default;l=100;w=10
   RateLimit: default;r=50;t=5
~~~

These examples show multiple policies being returned:

~~~ example
   RateLimit-Policy: persec;l=10;w=1, permin;l=50;w=60, perhr;l=1000;w=3600, perday;l=5000;w=86400
   RateLimit-Policy: persec;l=10;w=1;burst=1000, perhr;l=1000;w=3600
~~~

An example of invalid header field value with two policies associated with the same quota units without a unique "p" parameter value to differentiate them:

~~~ example

>    RateLimit-Policy: spike;l=10;w=1, rate;l=10;w=60

Reviewer 3: There's no "p" parameter here

~~~ http-message
HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently
Location: /foo/123
RateLimit: problemPolicy;r=0, t=10

~~~

If a response contains both the Retry-After and the RateLimit header fields, the reset keyword value SHOULD reference the same point in time as the Retry-After field value.

> When using a policy involving more than one time window, the server MUST reply with the RateLimit header field related to the time window with the lower remaining keyword values.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When using a policy involving more than one time window, the server MUST reply with the RateLimit header field related to the time window with the lower "r" parameter values.
```
Does this need to be updated to be consistent with the change in https://github.com/ietf-wg-httpapi/ratelimit-headers/pull/130/files#diff-d26a6f407efe0e4913cbcf7bf0e2a164bee5edea8bf2fdc4aa97a7ceb3acc03cR229 (s/remaining keyword/r parameter/)?

There are other instances in this document that are still referring to `remaining keyword` that I can't comment on because they're not part of the PR diff - do those need to be updated too?

More generally, I see some diffs where wording was changed from `keyword` to `parameter`, but `keyword` remains in other areas. I'm new to this side of proposal drafts, so apologies if this is just bikeshedding 😁: should this wording be consistent throughout?

9. Is the quota-policy definition {{quota-policy}} too complex?

   You can always return the simplest form

~~~ example
RateLimit:default;r=50;t=60
~~~

   The policy key clearly connects the current usage status of a policy to the defined limits.
   So for the following field:

~~~ example
RateLimit-Policy: sliding;l=100;w=60;burst=1000;comment="sliding window", fixed;l=5000;w=3600;burst=0;comment="fixed window"
RateLimit: sliding;r=50;t=44
~~~

   the value "sliding" identifies the policy being reported.

> 11. Can we use shorter names? Why don't put everything in one field?

Reviewer 3: This question & answer should probably be revised.

  * X-RateLimit-Remaining and X-Rate-Limit-Remaining
  * X-RateLimit-Reset and X-Rate-Limit-Reset

The semantic of RateLimit depends on the windowing algorithm.
The semantic of RateLimit depends on the windowing algorithm.
A sliding window policy for example may result in having a
remaining keyword
value related to the ratio between the current and the maximum throughput.
e.g.

~~~ example
RateLimit-Limit: 12
RateLimit-Policy: 12;w=1
RateLimit-Remaining: 6          ; using 50% of throughput, that is 6 units/s
RateLimit-Reset: 1
~~~

If this is the case, the optimal solution is to achieve

~~~ example
RateLimit-Limit: 12
RateLimit-Policy: 12;w=1
RateLimit-Remaining: 1          ; using 100% of throughput, that is 12 units/s

> RateLimit-Reset: 1

Reviewer 3: Why did these get reverted to the older style?

Author: An error. I will fix.
